Add a docs page to explain NGINX Agent features (#941)
nginx/agent: site/content/configuration/configure-nginx-agent-features.md

---
title: "Configure NGINX Agent Features"
draft: false
weight: 300
toc: true
tags: [ "docs" ]
categories: ["configuration"]
doctypes: ["task"]
---

## Overview

This guide describes the NGINX Agent features, and how to enable and disable features using the NGINX Agent configuration file.

## Before you begin

Before you begin ensure:

- NGINX Agent has been installed. 
- Access to the NGINX Agent configuration file.

## Features

> The following table details the NGINX Agent features available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the NGINX Agent features.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{<bootstrap-table "table table-striped table-bordered">}}
```

| **Feature Name**      | **Description**      |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| registration | Registering the NGINX Agent with the management plane.|
| nginx-config-async | Enable the publishing and uploading of NGINX configurations from the management plane.|
| metrics | Enable collecting of NGINX metrics.|
| metrics-throttle | Batch metrics before sending.|
| metrics-sender | Reports metrics over the gRPC connection.|
| dataplane-status | Report the health of the NGINX Instance.|
| process-watcher | Observe changes to the NGINX process.|
| file-watcher | Observe changes to the NGINX configuration or any changes to files on disk.|
| activity-events | Send NGINX or NGINX Agent related events to the management plane.|
| agent-api | Enable the NGINX Agent REST API.|

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{</bootstrap-table>}}
```

> ### Use Cases

Author: @Jcahilltorre Added another use case.

> #### Enable metrics only
> 1. **Access the NGINX Instance:** SSH to the virtual machine/server where NGINX Agent is running.
> ```
> ssh user@your-nginx-instance
> ```
> 2. **Edit NGINX Agent configuration:** 
> ```
> sudo vim /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf
> ```
> 3. **Add Features section:** Add the following yaml to the end of the file:
> 
> ```
> features:
>   - metrics
>   - metrics-throttle
>   - dataplane-status
> ``` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enable metrics only

1. **Access the NGINX Instance:** SSH to the virtual machine/server where NGINX Agent is running.

   ```
   ssh user@your-nginx-instance
   ```

2. **Edit NGINX Agent configuration:** 

   ```
   sudo vim /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf
   ```

3. **Add Features section:** Add the following yaml to the end of the file:

   ```
   features:
     - metrics
     - metrics-throttle
     - dataplane-status
   ``` 

```

> ``` 

Author: @Jcahilltorre changes added.

4. **Restart the NGINX Agent service:** Restart the NGINX Agent service to enable changes.

> At this stage, users will be able to view metrics data being sent, but will not have the capability to push NGINX configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the steps have been completed, users will be able to view metrics data being sent but will not have the capability to push NGINX configuration changes.
```

---
title: "Configure NGINX Agent Features"
draft: false
weight: 300
toc: true
tags: [ "docs" ]

> docs: "DOCS-933"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed in latest commit.

categories: ["configuration"]
doctypes: ["task"]
---

## Overview

> This guide describes the NGINX Agent features, and how to enable and disable features using the NGINX Agent configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes the F5 NGINX Agent features, and how to enable and disable features using the NGINX Agent configuration file.
```

## Before you begin

> Before you begin ensure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start, make sure that you have:
```

> - NGINX Agent has been installed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NGINX Agent installed in your system.
```
